MEMORIES.md, before:

Phase Workflow (CRITICAL - always follow)
1. Read reference files for the phase
2. Implement the phase (read more references if needed)
3. Run: cargo fmt && cargo check && LIBRARY_PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/libiconv/lib" cargo test
4. Update MEMORIES.md and PROGRESS.md
5. Commit with descriptive message (never git push)
6. Move to next phase

Tooling
- Stack: Rust (backend), Svelte 5 + TypeScript (frontend)
- Package manager: cargo (backend), bun (frontend)
- Test command: LIBRARY_PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/libiconv/lib" cargo test
- Lint command: cargo clippy
- Format command: cargo fmt
- macOS: brew install libiconv (required for stringprep/sqlx tests)
- Docker: postgres:alpine for local dev database
- CLI install: cargo install --path crates/forge

Architecture
- Single binary containing all components (gateway, functions, workers, scheduler)
- PostgreSQL as sole database and coordination layer (no Redis/Kafka required)
- gRPC mesh for inter-node communication
- WebSocket for real-time client subscriptions

Core Components
- Schema: Rust structs with proc macros (#[forge::model], #[forge::enum])
- Functions: query (read), mutation (write), action (side effects)
- Jobs: background tasks with SKIP LOCKED pattern
- Crons: scheduled tasks via leader-elected scheduler
- Workflows: multi-step durable processes with compensation
- Reactivity: Reactor orchestrates ChangeListener -> InvalidationEngine -> Query Re-execution -> WebSocket Push
- Reactivity triggers: forge_enable_reactivity(table_name) creates NOTIFY triggers on tables
- Reactivity: read set tracking uses query name patterns (get_X/list_X -> table X)
- Runtime: Forge struct in crates/forge/src/runtime.rs wires all components
- Builder: ForgeBuilder pattern for configuration before run()
- Testing: TestContext in forge-runtime/src/testing/ for integration tests

Key Patterns
- Dependency injection via context (QueryContext, MutationContext, JobContext)
- PostgreSQL advisory locks for leader election
- SKIP LOCKED for job claiming (no double-processing)
- Table partitioning for high-churn tables (jobs, logs, metrics)
- Proc macros use forge::forge_core:: paths (re-exported from forge crate)
- User functions take &QueryContext and &MutationContext (references)
- axum 0.7+ route syntax uses {param} not :param
- FromStr trait for parsing enums from strings (not inherent from_str methods)
- Infallible parsing uses std::convert::Infallible as error type
- Type aliases for complex boxed function types (BoxedCronHandler, CompensateFn, MockHandlerFn)
- ForgeConfig uses `parse_toml()` method instead of `from_str()` to avoid clippy warning
- Svelte 5: avoid destructuring $props() at module level, access props.* inside closures
- Svelte 5: ForgeProvider sets context immediately during initialization, not in onMount
- Svelte 5: use const for $state objects passed to context, mutate properties not reassign
- Function registration: call builder.function_registry_mut().register_query::<FnQuery>() before .config()
- Proc macros: query fn → FnQuery struct, mutation fn → FnMutation struct
- RPC: client normalizes empty objects {} to null for Rust unit type compatibility
- RPC: response uses `data` field not `result`
- Migrations: use migrations/ directory with numbered SQL files (0001_xxx.sql)
- Migrations: MigrationRunner uses advisory lock for mesh-safe concurrent deploys
- Migrations: built-in FORGE tables versioned as 0000_forge_internal_v1
- Migrations: SQL split on semicolons for statement-by-statement execution
- Context: use ctx.db() accessor, not ctx.pool field (pool is private)
- JWT: jsonwebtoken v9 uses `validation.insecure_disable_signature_validation()` for dev mode
- JWT: DecodingKey doesn't impl Debug, use manual Debug impl for structs containing it
- Observability: use UNNEST pattern for PostgreSQL batch inserts (no ON CONFLICT in array ops)
- Workflow compensation: store handlers in HashMap, run in reverse order on cancel
- Source parser: syn crate for parsing Rust source to extract #[model] and #[forge_enum] without compilation
- Sample apps: place in examples/ directory, add to workspace members in root Cargo.toml
- CLI generator: embeds @forge/svelte runtime directly in generated projects (no npm linking)
- CLI generator: query() is async Promise-based (not store), subscribe() is store-based for real-time

Frontend
- Auto-generated TypeScript types from Rust schema
- Svelte 5 runes integration for reactivity
- WebSocket subscriptions with automatic reconnect

Database Tables
- forge_nodes: cluster membership
- forge_leaders: leader election state
- forge_jobs: job queue
- forge_cron_runs: cron execution history
- forge_workflow_runs/steps: workflow state
- forge_events: change tracking
- forge_metrics/logs/traces: observability
- forge_sessions/subscriptions: WebSocket state

Commit message:

Implement generated code and dashboard fixes
Part C - Generated Code Fixes:
- Enhance .gitignore template with .svelte-kit/, IDE files, common ignores
- Add VITE_API_URL env support in ForgeProvider with .env.example
- Fix duplicate mod.rs entries by checking if module already declared
- Extend FunctionKind enum with Job, Cron, Workflow variants
- Add sample job, cron, workflow files to generated projects

Part B - Dashboard Fixes:
- Replace Chart.js stub with CDN loader (Chart.js 4.4.0 + zoom plugin)
- Wire metrics page search/filter with debounced input handling
- Wire logs page search and SSE-based live stream toggle
- Wire traces page filters (search, min duration, errors only)
- Add debounce utility and setupEventHandlers for all pages

MEMORIES.md, after:

Phase Workflow (CRITICAL - always follow)
1. Read reference files for the phase
2. Implement the phase (read more references if needed)
3. Run: cargo fmt && cargo check && LIBRARY_PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/libiconv/lib" cargo test
4. Update MEMORIES.md and PROGRESS.md
5. Commit with descriptive message (never git push)
6. Move to next phase

Tooling
- Stack: Rust (backend), Svelte 5 + TypeScript (frontend)
- Package manager: cargo (backend), bun (frontend)
- Test command: LIBRARY_PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/libiconv/lib" cargo test
- Lint command: cargo clippy
- Format command: cargo fmt
- macOS: brew install libiconv (required for stringprep/sqlx tests)
- Docker: postgres:alpine for local dev database
- CLI install: cargo install --path crates/forge

Architecture
- Single binary containing all components (gateway, functions, workers, scheduler)
- PostgreSQL as sole database and coordination layer (no Redis/Kafka required)
- gRPC mesh for inter-node communication
- WebSocket for real-time client subscriptions

Core Components
- Schema: Rust structs with proc macros (#[forge::model], #[forge::enum])
- Functions: query (read), mutation (write), action (side effects)
- Jobs: background tasks with SKIP LOCKED pattern
- Crons: scheduled tasks via leader-elected scheduler
- Workflows: multi-step durable processes with compensation
- Reactivity: Reactor orchestrates ChangeListener -> InvalidationEngine -> Query Re-execution -> WebSocket Push
- Reactivity triggers: forge_enable_reactivity(table_name) creates NOTIFY triggers on tables
- Reactivity: read set tracking uses query name patterns (get_X/list_X -> table X)
- Runtime: Forge struct in crates/forge/src/runtime.rs wires all components
- Builder: ForgeBuilder pattern for configuration before run()
- Testing: TestContext in forge-runtime/src/testing/ for integration tests

Key Patterns
- Dependency injection via context (QueryContext, MutationContext, JobContext)
- PostgreSQL advisory locks for leader election
- SKIP LOCKED for job claiming (no double-processing)
- Table partitioning for high-churn tables (jobs, logs, metrics)
- Proc macros use forge::forge_core:: paths (re-exported from forge crate)
- User functions take &QueryContext and &MutationContext (references)
- axum 0.7+ route syntax uses {param} not :param
- FromStr trait for parsing enums from strings (not inherent from_str methods)
- Infallible parsing uses std::convert::Infallible as error type
- Type aliases for complex boxed function types (BoxedCronHandler, CompensateFn, MockHandlerFn)
- ForgeConfig uses `parse_toml()` method instead of `from_str()` to avoid clippy warning
- Svelte 5: avoid destructuring $props() at module level, access props.* inside closures
- Svelte 5: ForgeProvider sets context immediately during initialization, not in onMount
- Svelte 5: use const for $state objects passed to context, mutate properties not reassign
- Function registration: call builder.function_registry_mut().register_query::<FnQuery>() before .config()
- Proc macros: query fn → FnQuery struct, mutation fn → FnMutation struct
- RPC: client normalizes empty objects {} to null for Rust unit type compatibility
- RPC: response uses `data` field not `result`
- Migrations: use migrations/ directory with numbered SQL files (0001_xxx.sql)
- Migrations: MigrationRunner uses advisory lock for mesh-safe concurrent deploys
- Migrations: built-in FORGE tables versioned as 0000_forge_internal_v1
- Migrations: SQL split on semicolons for statement-by-statement execution
- Context: use ctx.db() accessor, not ctx.pool field (pool is private)
- JWT: jsonwebtoken v9 uses `validation.insecure_disable_signature_validation()` for dev mode
- JWT: DecodingKey doesn't impl Debug, use manual Debug impl for structs containing it
- Observability: use UNNEST pattern for PostgreSQL batch inserts (no ON CONFLICT in array ops)
- Workflow compensation: store handlers in HashMap, run in reverse order on cancel
- Source parser: syn crate for parsing Rust source to extract #[model] and #[forge_enum] without compilation
- Sample apps: place in examples/ directory, add to workspace members in root Cargo.toml
- CLI generator: embeds @forge/svelte runtime directly in generated projects (no npm linking)
- CLI generator: query() is async Promise-based (not store), subscribe() is store-based for real-time
- FunctionKind: is_client_callable() method returns true for Query/Mutation/Action (not Job/Cron/Workflow)
- Chart.js: CDN load with fallback pattern for offline/firewall environments
- Dashboard JS: debounce utility for search inputs, setupEventHandlers() for page-specific handlers
- SSE streams: EventSource API for live log streaming with auto-reconnect pattern

Frontend
- Auto-generated TypeScript types from Rust schema
- Svelte 5 runes integration for reactivity
- WebSocket subscriptions with automatic reconnect

Database Tables
- forge_nodes: cluster membership
- forge_leaders: leader election state
- forge_jobs: job queue
- forge_cron_runs: cron execution history
- forge_workflow_runs/steps: workflow state
- forge_events: change tracking
- forge_metrics/logs/traces: observability
- forge_sessions/subscriptions: WebSocket state
